user: COMPLETING YOUR ELECTRONIC ENTRY FOR THE DV PROGRAM
9. When can I submit my entry?
  
The DV-2024 entry period will run from 12:00 pm (noon), Eastern Daylight Time (EDT) (GMT4), Wednesday, October 5, 2022, until 12:00 pm (noon), Eastern Standard Time (EST) (GMT5), Tuesday, November 8, 2022.  Each year, millions of people submit entries.  Restricting the entry
period to these dates ensures selectees receive notification in a timely manner and gives both the visa
applicants and our embassies and consulates time to prepare and complete cases for visa issuance.   
We strongly encourage you to enter early during the registration period.  Excessive demand at end of
the registration period may slow the processing system.  We cannot accept entries after noon EST
on Tuesday, November 8, 2022. 
10. I am in the United States.  Can I enter the DV program?
Yes, an entrant may apply while in the United States or another country.  An entrant may submit an
entry from any location. 
11. Can I only enter once during the registration period?
Yes, the law allows only one entry per person during each registration period.  The Department of State
uses sophisticated technology to detect multiple entries.  Individuals with more than one entry will
be ineligible for a DV.  
12.   May my spouse and I each submit a separate entry?
Yes, each spouse may each submit one entry if each meets the eligibility requirements.  If either
spouse is selected, the other is entitled to apply as a derivative dependent.    
13. Which family members must I include in my DV entry?
Spouse:  If you are legally married, you must list your spouse regardless of whether he/she lives with
you or intends to immigrate to the United States.  You must list your spouse even if you
currently are separated from him/her unless you are legally separated.  Legal separation is an
arrangement when a couple remains married but lives apart, following a court order.  If you and your
spouse are legally separated, your spouse will not be able to immigrate with you through the Diversity
Visa program.  You will not be penalized if you choose to enter the name of a spouse from whom you
are legally separated.  If you are not legally separated by a court order, you must include your spouse
even if you plan to be divorced before you apply for the Diversity Visa or your spouse does not intend
to immigrate. Failure to list your eligible spouse or listing someone who is not your
spouse will make you ineligible for a DV.  If you are not married at the time of entry but plan on getting
married in the future, do not list a spouse on your entry form, as this would make you ineligible for a
DV.  If you are divorced or your spouse is deceased, you do not have to list your former spouse.   
The only exception to this requirement is if your spouse is already a U.S. citizen or U.S.
Lawful Permanent Resident.  If your spouse is a U.S. citizen or Lawful Permanent Resident, do not list
him/her in your entry.  A spouse who is already a U.S. citizen or a Lawful Permanent Resident will not
require or be issued a DV.  Therefore, if you select “married and my spouse IS a U.S. citizen or U.S.
LPR” on your entry, you will not be able to include further information on your spouse. 
Children:  You must list ALL your living children who are unmarried and under 21 years of age at the
time of your initial DV entry, whether they are your natural children, your stepchildren (even if you
are now divorced from that child’s parent), your spouse’s children, or children you have formally
adopted in accordance with the applicable laws.  List all children under 21 years of age at the time of
your electronic entry, even if they no longer reside with you or you do not intend for them to
immigrate under the DV program.  You are not required to list children who are already U.S. citizens or
Lawful Permanent Residents, though you will not be penalized if you do include them.   
Parents and siblings of the entrant are ineligible to receive DV visas as dependents, and you should not
include them in your entry. 
   
If you list family members on your entry, they are not required to apply for a visa or to immigrate or
travel with you.  However, if you fail to include an eligible dependent on your original entry or list
someone who is not your dependent, you will be ineligible for a DV, and your spouse and children will
be ineligible for derivative DVs.  This only applies to those who were family members at the time
the entry was submitted, not those acquired at a later date.  Your spouse, if eligible to enter, may still
submit a separate entry even though he or she is listed on your entry, and both entries must include
details about all dependents in your family.
14.  Must I submit my own entry, or can someone else do it for me?
We encourage you to prepare and submit your own entry, but you may have someone submit the entry
for you.  Regardless of whether you submit your own entry, or an attorney, friend, relative, or
someone else submits it on your behalf, only one entry may be submitted in your name.  You, as the
entrant, are responsible for ensuring that information in the entry is correct and complete; entries that
are not correct or complete may be disqualified.  Entrants should keep their confirmation number, so 
they are able to check the status of their entry independently, using Entrant Status
Check at dvprogram.state.gov.  Entrants should retain access to the email account used in the E-DV
submission. 
15.  I’m already registered for an immigrant visa in another category.  Can I still apply for the
DV program? 
Yes. 
16.  Can I download and save the E-DV entry form into a word processing program and
finish it later? 
No, you will not be able to save the form into another program for completion and submission later. 
The E-DV Entry Form is a web-form only.  You must fill in the information and submit it while online. 
17.  Can I save the form online and finish it later? 
No.  The E-DV Entry Form is designed to be completed and submitted at one time.  You will have 60
minutes, starting from when you download the form, to complete and submit your entry through the EDV website.  If you exceed the 60-minute limit and have not submitted your complete
entry electronically, the system discards any information already entered.  The system deletes any
partial entries so that they are not accidentally identified as duplicates of a later, complete entry. 
Read the DV instructions completely before you start to complete the form online so that you know
exactly what information you will need.  
18.  I don’t have a scanner.  Can I send photographs to someone else to scan them, save
them, and email them back to me so I can use them in my entry?
Yes, as long as the photograph meets the requirements in the instructions and is electronically
submitted with, and at the same time as, the E-DV online entry.  You must already have the scanned
photograph file when you submit the entry online; it cannot be submitted separately from the online
application.  The entire entry (photograph and application together) can be submitted electronically
from the United States or from overseas. 
19.  If the E-DV system rejects my entry, can I resubmit my entry? 
Yes, you can resubmit your entry as long as your submission is completed by 12:00 pm (noon) Eastern
Standard Time (EST) (GMT-5) on Tuesday, November 8, 2022.  You will not be penalized for submitting
a duplicate entry if the E-DV system rejects your initial entry.  Given the unpredictable nature of the
Internet, you may not receive the rejection notice immediately.  You can try to submit an application
as many times as is necessary until a complete application is received and the confirmation notice
sent.  Once you receive a confirmation notice, your entry is complete, and you should NOT submit any
additional entries. 
20.  How soon after I submit my entry will I receive the electronic confirmation notice? 
You should receive the confirmation notice immediately, including a confirmation number that you
must record and keep.  However, the unpredictable nature of the Internet can result in delays.  You can
hit the “Submit” button as many times as is necessary until a complete application
is sent and you receive the confirmation notice.  However, once you receive a confirmation notice, do
not resubmit your information. 
21.  I hit the “Submit" button but did not receive a confirmation number.  If I submit another
entry, will I be disqualified?
If you did not receive a confirmation number, your entry was not recorded.  You must submit another
entry.  It will not be counted as a duplicate.  Once you receive a confirmation number, do not resubmit
your information.
assistant: The Diversity Visa (DV) program is a lottery system established by the U.S. government to provide an opportunity for individuals from countries that have low rates of immigration to the United States to apply for a green card. The registration period for DV-2024 will run from 12:00 pm (noon) Eastern Daylight Time (EDT) on Wednesday, October 5, 2022 to 12:00 pm (noon) Eastern Standard Time (EST) on Tuesday, November 8, 2022. During this period, eligible individuals can submit only one entry per person. The Department of State uses sophisticated technology to detect multiple entries and individuals with more than one entry will be ineligible for a DV. Eligible family members, such as a spouse and unmarried children under 21 years of age, must also be included in the entry. If an individual's entry is selected, they will be directed to a confirmation page with further instructions on the immigration process, including information about fees.