user: Summarize this and make it presentable for YouTube: 

There are at least five good reasons why it’s possible that you might not believe I the proclamation of the Gospel and I’m going to want your comments below on the reason that most relates to you or maybe at one time did. Just so we are on the same page about the proclamation let me share with you how the Church about how the message of Jesus about God is Good News for humanity. Here it is that: “Jesus proclaimed the Kingdom of God; a new and definitive intervention by God, with a transforming power equal and even superior to his creation of the world” (GDC 101). First of all I just want to know if you have ever heard a more potent and powerful expression of the Kingdom of God, “with a transforming power equal and even superior to his creation of the world.” As you know salvation is the central message of the good news. “This is the great gift of God which is to be considered as comprising not merely liberation from all those things by which man is oppressed, but especially liberation from sin and from the domination of the evil one, a liberation which incorporates that gladness enjoyed by every man who knows God and is known by him, who sees God and who surrenders himself trustingly to him.” This is a good beginning point for what might discuss what would be an “intimate and vital bond of man to God,” so that is a starting point of departure and the scope of our conversion because not all people believe even in this very brief and limited view of the Gospel message proclaiming salvation which is liberation, but also an intimate relationship with God.

According to the Catechism of the Catholic Church. Here are at least five reasons why the Gospel might be forgotten, overlooked or even explicitly rejected. I want to know in the comments below if one or more of these attunes might apply to you or may have been your perspective before you believed.

Revolt against evil in the world
Religious ignorance or indifference
The cares and riches of this world
The scandal of bad example on the part of believers
Currents of thought hostile to religion 
Finally, that attitude of sinful man which makes him hide from God out of fear and flee his call.
(CCC 29)

Let me know if you are a believer and have ever once identified with one of these six reasons. If you do not believe does one of these six reasons apply to you and if so, which one. Pause, the video and go in the comments and let me know your thoughts. Take a moment to consider which one applies to you then we will discuss a passage from Scriptures and get your thoughts on that. First, of these six just pick one and let me know which one you think most applies to you now or at one time in your life may have been a reason for not believing in the proclamation without getting into any other reasons which one of these do you think relates to you the most. I would actually say after thinking more about it; before I believed I related most to number 2: religious indifference and a good dash of number 3 the cares and riches of the world with a great heaping helping of personal sin. I was not rejecting the Gospel because I was somehow revolting against in the world as reason not to believe, nor did care about scandals or hypocrites. Maybe a little on the prevailing negativity or lack thereof positive towards religion. If I had order these from most likely my attitude was from most to least was 2, 3, 6, 5, 4, 1. Mainly, I was just indifferent to it all and didn’t know much of anything, so I really did not care and because of my cares for the world and the things it namely my sinful desires I did not take it seriously. Then of course, I would hide from God out of fear and to flee his call, which I did during the middle part of my journey of faith as I was learning to commit my life to him. I would say now if there is anything that might hinder my faith it could be a revolt against the evil in the world. It sounds strange that what was least important to me before I believed would now be something that I could see making it difficult to believe. I might even say that the scandal and bad example on part of believers could also cause me to struggle in my faith. Oddly enough, I can definitely relate to all this attitudes although I don’t hold any of them now I can see how I could and might have these views and where you might stand in the conversation?

Let me know in the comments below.
1 / 1
assistant: Hello and welcome to this video where we will be discussing the reasons why some people may not believe in the proclamation of the Gospel. The Gospel message of Jesus about God is Good News for humanity as he proclaimed the Kingdom of God; a new and definitive intervention by God, with a transforming power equal and even superior to his creation of the world. However, the Catechism of the Catholic Church lists at least five reasons why the Gospel might be forgotten, overlooked or even explicitly rejected: revolt against evil in the world, religious ignorance or indifference, the cares and riches of this world, the scandal of bad example on the part of believers, currents of thought hostile to religion and the attitude of sinful man which makes him hide from God out of fear and flee his call.

In this video, we encourage you to share your thoughts in the comments below and let us know which of these reasons you may have related to at one time in your life. If you are a believer, have you ever identified with any of these reasons? Or if you do not believe, which one of these reasons apply to you the most? We also invite you to consider a passage from Scriptures and get your thoughts on that.

Personally, before the speaker believed, they related most to religious indifference and the cares and riches of the world with a great heaping helping of personal sin. They were not rejecting the Gospel because they were revolting against it in the world, nor did they care about scandals or hypocrites. Now, if there is anything that might hinder their faith, it could be a revolt against the evil in the world or the scandal and bad example on the part of believers.

We hope you enjoyed this video and invite you to share your thoughts in the comments below. Thank you for watching.