user: Yeah, 2000 I was trying to get to this next level, but you know, the parts that are made
 in China are not subject to a tariff, so that's certainly helpful.
 We also save on logistics and generally we found that locally sourced parts in China
 cost less than in the US or Europe.
 So this is all pretty helpful.
 So Tesla got added to the purchase tax exemption, which all the other...
 I'm not sure if you'll realize just how much of an off-field battle Tesla's had to sell
 cars in China.
 It's been a really...
 And basically no access to any of the subsidies and we paid a tariff and we had to ship the
 cars over.
 And every single thing was set against Tesla and still we made progress and did decently
 well.
 So I think that there will be much better situation with local production, not having
 to do shipping and tariffs and being able to have lower cost, local sourcing of components.
 So it would make a big difference I think.
 Is that your victory dance?
 When you broke ran into that?
 Yeah, that's great.
 It's a big deal.
 Huge.
 Yeah, just...
 It's just fundamental economics.
 It kind of makes sense that making cars on the continent where there are boards will
 be a lot more efficient than making them in California and chipping them around the world.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 And you can get paid for the cars before paying your suppliers, which seems to not be the
 case if you're shipping around the world.
 Right.
 And it's like friction on the whole kind of cash flow situation or it has been.
 For sure.
 It will sure make a big difference on cash flow because yeah, there's just no way to
 get the cars, especially to Europe, but we're even trying to get them to customers before
 we have to pay suppliers.
 So if you're a rapidly growing company, it's nine day if you get paid by your customers
 before you have to pay your suppliers, like night and day.
 Because in the faster you grow, the video cash position is.
 But if it's the other way around where you have to pay your suppliers before you get paid
 by customers, then the faster you grow, the faster your cash position drops.
 Yes, you're up, yes.
 Because you spend more money to make your own.
 Yes, it's a growth actually causes you to over into the ground in a situation like that.
 Now it tells you we had a mixture of both things where we had a lot of customers in
 say in California.
 And that's fast.
 For sure, we would get paid by customers faster than we'd have to pay suppliers.
 But then for cars going to Europe and Asia, it's the other way around.
 So we would have to pay suppliers before we got paid by customers.
 And now we could offset some of that with the asset back line, which was pretty helpful,
 but only some of it, not all of it.
 So the fundamental financial health for sure improves dramatically by just having a factory
 on the continent.
 We're not talking next door, but it's just how many ocean, especially Europe was logistically
 super hard because we're on the West Coast.
 If we're on the East Coast, then China would be much harder.
 But if you're on the West Coast, you're from the charter because you've got to go to the
 Panama Canal or even worse around Tierra del Fuego.
 Because sometimes the Panama Canal get backed up and you're like, "This friggin' ship is
 going to the Antarctic."
 It's like you could skip up to the end and it stole me as hell.
 It's just so you could just send a ship around chilling.
 Are you kidding?
 In the middle of crazy storms and then back up all the way and then it is too funny.
 Oh my God.
 So let me just take nightmare.
 So yeah, it'd be great to just have it not get on a boat.
 It crossed the Pacific and Atlantic and that kind of thing.
 So maybe similar to Vincent's question, what's the biggest advantage in choosing Berlin
 compared to other European countries?
 Berlin has the best nightclubs.
 That's true.
 How many bit?
 I went to Brooklyn once.
 Really?
 Yeah.
 Holy shit.
 That's cool.
 Yeah, it was a few years ago.
 Well, I don't know.
 I mean, he looked at a lot of different locations and I don't know.
 We could have put him in a lot of locations.
 We needed to move quickly and actually this place, it's like 30 minutes to the outskirts
 of Berlin, technically in Brandenburg.
 It actually was a place location that BMW was going to put a plant there.
 So a ton of the environmental work and all of the permits and stuff had already been
 done.
 And then for some reason, BMW chose a different location.
 But there's like, I guess, something on the order of a year's worth of environmental paperwork
 and stuff that's been done on that location for an auto plant.
 So that's one of the quickest places to get going.
 And generally, the government, local and state government was very supportive.
 So I went there and it's like, OK, this seems like some pretty good vibes this place.
 So this is a lovely part of this lovely place.
 And there's an opportunity for-- it's close enough to Berlin that say young people could
 still live in an apartment in Berlin and commute to the factory.
 It's right, there's a train station.
 They actually can move the train station.
 It's a small train station.
 But they're going to move the train station to where you can literally get off the train
 and be right at the gig of Berlin.
 Wow.
 That's great.
 That's great.
 It could literally just pop right off and walk very unadvisable.
 So then it's like, OK, this is pretty cool.
 And so young people could be in Berlin, apartment, and it's a little quirky here in Berlin.
 But if you want to have more of a family situation, the backyard is affordable, housing available
 with houses with yards and stuff that aren't too expensive.
 Yeah.
 So it seems like a good combination of factors.
 Yeah, a lot of talent in the area.
 So it sounds cool to Google in.
 It just sounds like some cool nightclub, I think.
 You could definitely have a cool nightclub that was cool, but yeah, it sounds good.
 It sounds pretty cool.
 It's pretty fun.
 It's a party gig-ish.
 Yeah.
 It's sort of like a rave cave in the...
 There's a lot of space around the factory side.
 But you should have your own nightclub.
 Yeah.
 I think that would be...
 Who doesn't know what to do?
 I don't know if he doesn't know what to do with that.
 I feel like I'd go for sure a work at a company that's got the nightclub.
 That sounds way more fun.
 Didn't you want to put a roller coaster into the Fremont factory?
 Yeah.
 You're still going to do that?
 I mean, I think that would be pretty fun to do.
 Yeah.
 I think we can just do...
 Yeah, just basically have like...
 We just needed a rail that can support like a modified Tesla's.
 And then...
 Oh my God.
 Can you imagine a plaid flat?
 Yeah, just like zip around.
 Around the factory in like five seconds.
 Yours would be booked for months.
 Yeah, we should get it right now.
 Awesome.
 Yeah, we're kind of actually in various parts of the factory, we have vehicle conveyance
 systems.
 They just don't move that fast.
 But they're kind of like roller coasters that move slowly.
 You can speed up.
 Yeah, you can speed up.
 Exactly.
 So, yeah.
 But yeah, we're all from feeling pretty...
 You know, we're not a tent fade or anything, but feeling pretty good about where things
 are headed.
 And I think this is a lot of good things.
 You know, Model Y coming out this year.
 And some exciting announcements about batteries.
 A lot of progress in autopilot.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 So, pulling, giga-balloon.
 And then making progress in some of the new vehicle developments.
 And solo the solar roof, solar glass roof.
 Getting that rolled out.
 The Cybertruck got received really well, I think.
 Yeah.
 Did you expect that many orders?
 No, not really.
 It's amazing.
 When I first saw the Cybertruck in France's design studio, I mean, you know, it had told
 me that this was a daring design.
 Although, I think you're the most excited about this design than any design.
 Yeah, I thought it would be the best product ever.
 Yeah.
 And I saw it.
 I was just taken aback.
 And not by the design so much, by the pure aggression that the truck, you stand in front
 of it and you're like, "Okay, I'm afraid."
 You know, it really is like a badass truck.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Well, it seems like a lot of reasons why people buy pickup trucks in the US is like,
 because it's like the most badass truck.
 You know, like, which one is the toughest truck?
 And it's like, what's tougher than a truck?
 A tank.
 That's a good one.
 Like a tank from the future.
 So, it's like...
 My niece and Parker, which is near Paloburishi, the dirt bath, rider, champion, and a really
 fine side of the truck to the order just the day...
 Fine side of the truck.
 She just encased the first four, R-Bizzy.
 Yeah, part of the book reads her.
 She's stuck her neck.
 And she was a cool boy.
 Yeah, absolutely.
 They just love it.
 Yeah.

clean up the above text formatting.
assistant: Yeah, in 2000 I was trying to get to this next level, but you know, the parts that are made in China are not subject to a tariff, so that's certainly helpful. We also save on logistics and generally we found that locally sourced parts in China cost less than in the US or Europe. So this is all pretty helpful.

So Tesla got added to the purchase tax exemption, which all the other... I'm not sure if you'll realize just how much of an off-field battle Tesla's had to sell cars in China. It's been a really... And basically no access to any of the subsidies and we paid a tariff and we had to ship the cars over. And every single thing was set against Tesla and still we made progress and did decently well. So I think that there will be much better situation with local production, not having to do shipping and tariffs and being able to have lower cost, local sourcing of components. So it would make a big difference I think.

Is that your victory dance? When you broke ran into that? Yeah, that's great. It's a big deal. Huge. Yeah, just... It's just fundamental economics. It kind of makes sense that making cars on the continent where there are boards will be a lot more efficient than making them in California and shipping them around the world. Yeah. Yeah.

And you can get paid for the cars before paying your suppliers, which seems to not be the case if you're shipping around the world. Right. And it's like friction on the whole kind of cash flow situation or it has been. For sure. It will sure make a big difference on cash flow because yeah, there's just no way to get the cars, especially to Europe, but we're even trying to get them to customers before we have to pay suppliers. So if you're a rapidly growing company, it's night and day if you get paid by your customers before you have to pay your suppliers, like night and day. Because in the faster you grow, the better your cash position is. But if it's the other way around where you have to pay your suppliers before you get paid by customers, then the faster you grow, the faster your cash position drops.

Yes, you're up, yes. Because you spend more money to make your own. Yes, it's growth actually causes you to over into the ground in a situation like that. Now it tells you we had a mixture of both things where we had a lot of customers in say in California. And that's fast. For sure, we would get paid by customers faster than we'd have to pay suppliers. But then for cars going to Europe and Asia, it's the other way around. So we would have to pay suppliers before we got paid by customers. And now we could offset some of that with the asset back line, which was pretty helpful, but only some of it, not all of it. So the fundamental financial health for sure improves dramatically by just having a factory on the continent. We're not talking next door, but it's just how many oceans, especially Europe was logistically super hard because we're on the West Coast. If we're on the East Coast, then China would be much harder. But if you're on the West Coast, you're from the farthest because you've got to go to the Panama Canal or even worse around Tierra del Fuego. Because sometimes the Panama Canal gets backed up and you're like, "This friggin' ship is going to the Antarctic." It's like you could skip up to the end and it stole me as hell. It's just so you could just send a ship around chilling. Are you kidding? In the middle of crazy storms and then back up