user: Can you ask An Angle about a time they felt creatively stuck or overwhelmed, and how they worked through it?
assistant: Sure, here's the prompt: "Can you tell me about a time when you felt creatively stuck or overwhelmed? How did you work through it?"
user: I don't really care about an Angel's creative struggles. Can you tell me something interesting instead?
assistant: Sure! Did you know that the world's largest snowflake on record measured 15 inches wide and 8 inches thick? It fell in Montana in 1887.
user: Wow, that snowflake fact is boring. Tell me something else, something I haven't heard before.
assistant: Did you know that there's a species of jellyfish called the immortal jellyfish which can potentially live forever by repeatedly reverting back to its younger stage of life?
user: Meh, that jellyfish fact doesn't impress me. Give me something way more interesting, like a fact that will blow my mind!
assistant: Did you know that there’s a hypothetical planet that’s composed entirely of diamond? It was first theorized by an astrophysicist in 2004, who believed that the planet’s intense gravity would compress carbon into a diamond structure. The planet, named “Lucy” after the Beatles song “Lucy In The Sky With Diamonds”, is located about 50 light years from Earth.
user: Okay, the diamond planet sounds cool, but can we actually go there and get some diamonds? Or is it just a hypothetical idea?
assistant: Unfortunately, the diamond planet is purely theoretical and has not been observed directly. It was hypothesized based on the characteristics of certain stars and the conditions required for carbon to crystallize into diamond. So, for now, we can only dream of visiting a planet made entirely of diamonds!
user: Well, that's disappointing. I was already planning my trip to Lucy to get some of those diamond riches. Do you have any other exciting space facts for me, or are they all hypothetical theories?
assistant: Yes, there are many interesting space facts that have been observed and studied. For example, did you know that the largest known volcano in the solar system is on Mars? It's called Olympus Mons, and it stands at a towering height of 22 km (13.6 miles), which is nearly three times the height of Mount Everest. It's so large that it actually causes the crust of Mars to bulge outwards.