user: SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

 In this Act:
 (1) Classified national security information.--The term 
 ``classified national security information'' means information 
 that has been determined pursuant to Executive Order 13526 (50 
 U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to classified national security 
 information) or any predecessor or successor order, to require 
 protection against unauthorized disclosure, and is marked to 
 indicate such classified status if in documentary form.
 (2) Controlling holding.--The term ``controlling holding'' 
 means a holding with the power, whether direct or indirect and 
 whether exercised or not exercised, to determine, direct, or 
 decide important matters affecting an entity.
 (3) Covered holding.--The term ``covered holding''--
 (A) means, regardless of how or when such holding 
 was or will be obtained or otherwise come to have been 
 held, a controlling holding held, directly or 
 indirectly, in an ICTS covered holding entity by--
 (i) a foreign adversary;
 (ii) an entity subject to the jurisdiction 
 of, or organized under the laws of, a foreign 
 adversary; or
 (iii) an entity owned, directed, or 
 controlled by an entity described in 
 subparagraphs (i) or (ii); and
 (B) includes any other holding, the structure of 
 which is designed or intended to evade or circumvent 
 the application of this Act, subject to regulations 
 prescribed by the Secretary.
 (4) Covered transaction.--
 (A) In general.--The term ``covered transaction'' 
 means a transaction in which an entity described in 
 subparagraph (B) has any interest (including through an 
 interest in a contract for the provision of the 
 technology or service), or any class of such 
 transactions.
 (B) Covered entities.--The entities described in 
 this subparagraph are:
 (i) a foreign adversary;
 (ii) an entity subject to the jurisdiction 
 of, or organized under the laws of, a foreign 
 adversary; and
 (iii) an entity owned, directed, or 
 controlled by a person described in 
 subparagraph (A) or (B).
 © Non-evasion.--The term ``covered transaction'' 
 includes any other transaction, the structure of which 
 is designed or intended to evade or circumvent the 
 application of this Act, subject to regulations 
 prescribed by the Secretary.
 (D) Timing.--The term ``covered transaction'' 
 includes a current, past, or potential future 
 transaction.
 ? Critical infrastructure.--The term ``critical 
 infrastructure'' has the meaning given the term in section 
 1016(e) of the USA PATRIOT Act (42 U.S.C. 5195c(e)).
 (6) Entity.--The term ``entity'' means any of the 
 following, whether established in the United States or outside 
 of the United States:
 (A) A firm.
 (B) A government, government agency, government 
 department, or government commission.
 © A labor union.
 (D) A fraternal or social organization.
 (E) A partnership.
 ? A trust.
 (G) A joint venture.
 ? A corporation.
 (I) A group, subgroup, or other association or 
 organization whether or not organized for profit.
 (7) Executive department and agency.--The term ``executive 
 department and agency'' has the meaning given the term 
 ``Executive agency'' in section 105 of title 5, United States 
 Code.
 (8) Foreign adversary.--The term ``foreign adversary''--
 (A) means any foreign government or regime, 
 determined by the Secretary, pursuant to sections 3 and 
 5, to have engaged in a long-term pattern or serious 
 instances of conduct significantly adverse to the 
 national security of the United States or the security 
 and safety of United States persons; and
 (B) includes, unless removed by the Secretary 
 pursuant to section 6--
 (i) the People's Republic of China, 
 including the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
 Region and Macao Special Administrative Region;
 (ii) the Republic of Cuba;
 (iii) the Islamic Republic of Iran;
 (iv) the Democratic People's Republic of 
 Korea;
 (v) the Russian Federation; and
 (vi) the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela 
 under the regime of Nicolas Maduro Moros.
 (9) Holding.--The term ``holding''--
 (A) means--
 (i) an equity interest;
 (ii) a stock;
 (iii) a security;
 (iv) a share;
 (v) a partnership interest;
 (vi) an interest in a limited liability 
 company;
 (vii) a membership interest; or
 (viii) any participation, right, or other 
 equivalent, however designated and of any 
 character; and
 (B) includes, without limitation, any security 
 convertible into an ownership interest and right, 
 warrant, or option to acquire ownership interests.
 (10) ICTS covered holding entity.--The term ``ICTS covered 
 holding entity'' means any entity that--
 (A) owns, controls, or manages information and 
 communications technology products or services; and
 (B)(i) has not less than 1,000,000 United States-
 based annual active users at any point during the year 
 period preceding the date on which the covered holding 
 is referred to the President; or
 (ii) for which more than 1,000,000 units have been 
 sold to persons in the United States before the date on 
 which the covered holding is referred to the President.
 (11) Information and communications technology products or 
 services.--The term ``information and communications technology 
 products or services'' means any hardware, software, or other 
 product or service primarily intended to fulfill or enable the 
 function of information or data processing, storage, retrieval, 
 or communication by electronic means, including transmission, 
 storage, and display.
 (12) Mitigation measure.--The term ``mitigation measure'' 
 means a measure agreed to in an agreement between any relevant 
 party and the Federal Government, or ordered by the Federal 
 Government and of which any relevant party has been notified, 
 in any matter addressed under this Act to address any risk 
 arising from a covered transaction or associated with a covered 
 holding.
 (13) Person.--The term ``person'' means a natural person, 
 including a citizen or national of the United States or of any 
 foreign country.
 (14) Relevant executive department and agency heads.--The 
 term ``relevant executive department and agency heads'' means--
 (A) the Secretary of Treasury;
 (B) the Secretary of State;
 © the Secretary of Defense;
 (D) the Attorney General;
 (E) the Secretary of Homeland Security;
 ? the United States Trade Representative;
 (G) the Director of National Intelligence;
 ? the Administrator of General Services;
 (I) the Chairman of the Federal Communications 
 Commission; and
 (J) the heads of other executive departments and 
 agencies, as appropriate.
 (15) Relevant committees of congress.--The term ``relevant 
 committees of Congress'' means--
 (A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
 Transportation, the Committee on the Judiciary, the 
 Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
 Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Relations, the 
 Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the 
 Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Rules and 
 Administration, and the Select Committee on 
 Intelligence of the Senate; and
 (B) the Committee on Energy and Commerce, the 
 Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on Homeland 
 Security, the Committee on Oversight and 
 Accountability, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the 
 Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on House 
 Administration, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
 Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
 (16) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
 of Commerce.
 (17) Transaction.--The term ``transaction'' means any 
 acquisition, importation, transfer, installation, dealing in, 
 or use of any information and communications technology product 
 or service, including ongoing activities such as managed 
 services, data transmission, software updates, repairs, or the 
 provision of data hosting services, or a class of such 
 transactions.
assistant: Summarized outline:

1. Definitions in the Act:
a) Classified national security information
b) Controlling holding
c) Covered holding
d) Covered transaction
e) Critical infrastructure
f) Entity
g) Executive department and agency
h) Foreign adversary
i) Holding
j) ICTS covered holding entity
k) Information and communications technology products or services
l) Mitigation measure
m) Person
n) Relevant executive department and agency heads
o) Relevant committees of Congress
p) Secretary
q) Transaction

Summary of text: This Act outlines definitions related to national security, including terms associated with foreign adversaries, transactions, holdings, and entities in the context of information and communications technology products or services. It also defines relevant executive departments, agencies, and committees of Congress.
user: {You will use the definitions above when summarizing all texts that follow. If you understand this instruction, state "I understand." then continue summarizing texts, otherwise state "Please be more clear".}
assistant: I understand.