assistant: As I sat on the edge of the roof, thinking about suicide, suddenly my mind shifted over to what had just happened yesterday, and how it all led up to this moment.

How my dad had just died from a heart-attack, and I would have to attend his funeral tomorrow and deliver a eulogy. My father was a strict, abusive, and old-fashioned man. He would beat me and my brother as a form of punishment and discipline. From time to time, he would even beat my mom. He was not just physically abusive, but he was also verbally abusive, and he would call my brother a “Fatso” even though he knew that my brother was insecure about his weight.

But, at the end of the day he was still my father and he had provided for and protected me and my brother. And that my...

My thoughts were interrupted by the sudden ring of my phone. I glanced at it while my eyes were starting to tear up. I could make out the faint outline of the word "mom" and I rushed to pick it up.

"Hello" I said in a shaky voice. My mom started asking me if I were okay and if I could deliver the eulogy. I said whilst trying to sound confident "Yeah mom I’m fine, I’ll deliver the eulogy" so she asked me if I had finished writing it, I lied and said yes and then told her I would go to bed now and hung-up the phone.

I got down from the roof into my apartment not knowing what I should do, so I sat down and started writing the eulogy "eulogy text." When I finished, I decided that I should go to sleep as it took me 3 hours to write the eulogy and it was now 2:00 AM.

I lay in bed restless thinking about my dad. It is not like this was even sudden news. His health was in terrible condition before he had gotten the heart-attack, but it still hurt. I finally started to sleep after an hour or so of mourning.

The next day I woke up at 8:00 AM and got dressed to attend the funeral. I drove over to the cemetery. I arrived and got out of the car and started walking over to my father’s grave where I found my family members, some of my father’s friends and colleagues. I saw my mom in tears and felt sorry for her. We started praying over my father.

When we were done praying, I had to go up and deliver the eulogy. I went up to the podium and started reading out the eulogy I could feel my voice getting weaker and weaker. My mother noticed and looked concerned, but I pushed through with a heavy heart.

After I was done, I sat back down, and we prayed some more. I looked at my mom and stared right into her eyes. I saw how upset she was but remembered all that my dad had done to me and my brother and her and so I got angry because how could my mom mourn for him. I am so confused about my feelings. I am angry; I am upset. I do not know what is going on or what to do. Was I just doing this for my mom? I snapped back to reality and let my thoughts rest.

After we were done with the funeral, I started walking over to my car when my mom started calling out my name from behind. I looked back and went over to her and asked her what is up? She asked me if I could stay with her in her apartment while she copes and I started thinking about all the problems
user: !continueThis content may violate our content policy. If you believe this to be in error, please submit your feedback — your input will aid our research in this area.
assistant: that would arise by me staying there like the long drive to my job from her apartment would be a little over an hour compared to the 15 minutes from my house to work and how I would need to wake up way earlier. But she needed me right now and I couldn't leave her all alone and it would be good for me to have some company at this time too.

So, I told her "Sure mom." She said "Thank you dear." I said "No worries, want me to drive you to your apartment instead of taking the bus?" She said "That would be lovely, thank you again." I said "You're welcome" and we walked over to my car and I opened the door for her and helped her in.

She asked me if I could give her the auxiliary cord, so I said "The car doesn't have one, it uses Bluetooth." She asked me "Can you help me connect?" and I said "Sure, give me the phone." I typed in my car radio password then it connected and I gave it back to her. She thanked me and we started driving to her apartment.

As we were driving, I couldn't help but think about how my mom was coping with the loss of my dad. I wanted to help her, but I didn't know how. I decided that I would try to be there for her as much as I could and support her during this difficult time.

When we arrived at her apartment, I helped her inside and made sure she was comfortable. We talked for a while and I listened to her as she reminisced about my dad and shared some of her favorite memories with me. I tried to be supportive and understanding, even though it was hard for me to hear some of the things she was saying.

After a while, we both started to feel tired and we decided to go to bed. I promised her that I would be there for her and help her through this tough time. I know that it will be difficult, but I am determined to be there for my mom and help her in any way that I can.
user: continue
assistant: The next few days were a blur of grief and mourning. I spent most of my time with my mom, trying to be there for her and support her as she coped with the loss of my dad. I also had to take care of some practical matters, such as making funeral arrangements and dealing with the legal and financial aspects of my dad's passing. It was a lot to handle, but I tried my best to stay strong and be there for my mom.

One of the hardest things for me was delivering the eulogy at my dad's funeral. I had struggled to write it, as I didn't know how to express my feelings about my dad in a way that would be appropriate for the occasion. In the end, I decided to focus on the good memories I had of him, even though there were not many of them. I tried to be sincere and heartfelt in my delivery, and I think it went well. My mom was very grateful that I had done it, and I was glad that I could do something to help her.

After the funeral, my mom and I spent a lot of time together, talking and crying and trying to make sense of what had happened. It was a difficult time, but I was grateful to have my mom by my side. We both needed each other, and I think we were able to help each other through the worst of it.

As the days passed, my mom and I started to adjust to our new reality. We still missed my dad, of course, but we were both starting to heal. We talked about the future and what we wanted to do with our lives. I decided to move in with my mom and help her with anything she needed. I also started looking for a new job, as I didn't want to keep commuting from my mom's apartment to my old job. It was a new beginning for both of us, and we were determined to make the most of it.
user: continue
assistant: In the months that followed, my mom and I settled into our new routine. I moved in with her and started helping her with the household chores and other tasks. I also started looking for a new job, and after a few weeks of searching, I was able to find a position that was closer to my mom's apartment. It wasn't my dream job, but it paid the bills and allowed me to be there for my mom when she needed me.

As the months passed, my mom and I both started to heal and move on with our lives. We still missed my dad, of course, but we were both able to find some comfort in each other's company. We would often talk about him and remember the good times we had with him, and we would sometimes even laugh about some of the funny things he used to do.

One day, my mom and I were sitting in the living room, talking about my dad and reminiscing about the past. Suddenly, my mom looked at me and said, "You know, I'm glad you're here with me. It's been really hard since your dad passed away, but having you here has made it a little easier. You've been such a good son, and I'm so proud of you."

Hearing those words from my mom made me feel really good. I knew that I had been there for her, and I was glad that I could help her through such a difficult time. I gave her a hug and told her that I loved her, and we both shed a few tears. It was a moment that I would never forget, and it reminded me of the special bond that my mom and I shared.

In the years that followed, my mom and I continued to support each other through the ups and downs of life. We had our fair share of struggles and challenges, but we always had each other to lean on. And even though my dad was no longer with us, I knew that he would always be with us in spirit, watching over us and guiding us.
user: continue
assistant: As time went on, my mom and I continued to heal and move on with our lives. We both faced new challenges and obstacles, but we always had each other to lean on. We would talk about my dad often, and we would always remember the good times we had with him.

One day, I decided to visit my dad's grave and pay my respects. I hadn't been there in a while, and I wanted to spend some time alone with my thoughts. I arrived at the cemetery and made my way to my dad's grave. I stood there for a few moments, looking at the headstone and remembering my dad.

As I stood there, I felt a sudden sense of peace and calm. I realized that even though my dad was gone, he was still with me in a way. I could feel his presence all around me, and I knew that he was watching over me and guiding me. I felt grateful to have had such a wonderful dad, and I knew that I would always cherish the memories I had of him.

I stood there for a while longer, lost in thought. Then I turned and walked back to my car, feeling a sense of closure and peace. I knew that my dad was always with me, and that he would always be a part of my life. And I was grateful for that.