user: Write an academic, scholarly review of this paper. The review should be harsh, but fair, and you should act like a journalism and communications researcher, raising accurate points about methods and theory. This is like the review for a peer-reviewed journal. I will first give you part 1 of the paper, acknowledge it and wait for parts 2-5 to write your review.

Part 1:

Executive summary

This research project was designed to help three nascent news and information outlets better understand the information needs of their communities. The three outlets were chosen in part because they were all grantees of the New Jersey Civic Information Consortium – a first-in-the-nation public funding initiative begun in 2018.
 
The research included an online survey asking community members questions about how they find local news and information, what kinds of topics they are most interested in, and their general feelings about their towns. In one community – Paterson – the survey was distributed in four languages (English, Spanish, Arabic, and Bengali), to reach as many members of this diverse population as possible. In each town we also convened at least two focus groups, where community members gathered in-person (with one exception) to share their thoughts and conversation with a professional facilitator, who used roughly the same questions as those asked in the survey; however, the focus groups allowed for interaction and a more nuanced picture of the information landscape.

While the three communities we worked with – Paterson, Trenton, and Blairstown, NJ – differ in important ways, there are also commonalities in terms of people’s desires for local news and information. 

First, all three communities expressed a desire for some form of “service journalism,” whether it was in the form of more information about the location and content of municipal government meetings, how to find service providers, or contact information for local leaders. Content like this may seem like low-hanging fruit, but publishers who can keep up-to-date and reliable lists like this – all in one place – would provide tangible benefit to their communities. 

Second, we learned that people in all three communities rely heavily on Facebook for news and information about their towns and the people in them. While not everyone enjoys the often partisan or misleading information that circulates so easily on Facebook, it is still one of the first to be updated when news breaks and one of the best places for publishers to be highly visible. 

Finally, in two of the three communities – Paterson and Trenton – people want more local news about crime and safety, and in two others – Paterson and Blairstown – the publishers may grow their audience if they offer their content in languages other than English. In all three, at least some people mentioned wanting more feel-good, solutions-oriented local news.

After conducting the information needs assessments in each of the three towns, the publishers we worked with were given reports detailing and summarizing the feedback from their communities, along with recommendations for changes to their product to make it more responsive to those information needs. All three publishers are now in the process of making those improvements, armed with a clearer idea of the kinds of news and information their audience desires.
Introduction: Why information needs assessments?

The idea of a journalist looking to an audience for guidance on the most newsworthy topics of the day – rather than to an editor or by relying on amorphous news values – is relatively new. This practice gained prominence in the mid-2010s with the formation of several organizations to help newsrooms more easily understand the information needs and wants of their audiences. For example The Listening Post Collective (est. 2013), Groundsource (est. 2015), Hearken (est. 2015), and Outlier Media (est. 2016) all help news and community organizations contact people directly to gather information about what they want and need to know. Internews has been conducting information needs assessments in conflict zones and with other communities facing adversity for more than 10 years (Internews, 2023). Crittenden and Haywood (2020) date this movement to the Knight Commission’s 2009 report, “Informing Communities: Sustaining Democracy in the Digital Age” which was closely followed in by Waldman’s (2011) FCC report, “The Information Needs of Communities: The changing media landscape in a broadband age,” the title of which heralded the turn toward the audience.

In some ways, an information needs assessment is as simple and straightforward as the term implies: one seeks to understand what information a community needs. But of course, it is more involved than this. Sarah Alvarez of Outlier Media offers one definition: “Information [needs] are not just what people don’t know; it is information people need but there is a barrier to accessing, understanding, or trusting the information.” (Alvarez, 2021). Information needs assessments in the context of journalism imply “a more interactive – and potentially reciprocal” relationship with the audience, reflecting the practice’s close affinity to engaged journalism, which in turn grew out of the public journalism movement of the 1990s (Schmidt and Lawrence, 2020, p. 518-519). Information needs assessments stop short of making the audience co-creators of content, however; assessments such as those conducted here are in this way perhaps closer to audience research than engaged journalism (for a study that bridges the two, see McCullough and DeVigal, 2022).

Building on Alvarez, an information needs assessment might ask, what are the barriers to accessing information in a given community? Do people have access to broadband internet; do online newspapers have paywalls; are people aware of all of the sources for online news and information? What are the barriers to understanding local news or information? Are there language barriers; educational attainment barriers? What are the barriers to trusting local news or information? Is misinformation rampant; are there political divides? These are among the challenges that news and information providers face as they seek to serve their communities.

In addition, it has been increasingly recognized that formal audience information needs assessments, when conducted in the early stages of a news organization’s formation, can fundamentally shape its goals and mission, while also building in a habit of interacting with community members from the beginning (e.g. Konieczna, 2020).
Helping new hyperlocals in Paterson, Trenton, and Blairstown, New Jersey

This research assessed the information needs for three towns in New Jersey – Paterson, Trenton, and Blairstown – that are being served by new hyperlocal news and information organizations. These startups were among the recipients of the first round of public funding from the New Jersey Civic Information Consortium, a first-of-its-kind state-level public funding mechanism for news and information initiatives throughout the state.

The needs of the audiences for the three outlets were both universal and specific to their communities. People need reliable, timely, fact-based information about their communities in order to live their lives and participate in society. At the same time, certain communities have needs specific to their location, context, and history. 

Paterson (Paterson Info Hub)

Paterson, N.J., is a majority-Hispanic city (61 percent of the population, in the latest census). Within that Hispanic community, most people are from the Dominican Republic, although nearly every Central and South American country is represented, meaning Spanish is widely spoken. Paterson also has a sizable Arabic community. With nearly 160,000 residents, Paterson is one of New Jersey’s largest cities; however its median household income is below average for the state, at $45,141. Detailed demographic info for Paterson may be found in Appendix A.

Paterson is served by a robust array of nonprofit and local government organizations, including the organization involved in this project, The Paterson Alliance. The Paterson Alliance is a 501(c)3 founded in 1998 to bring these various agents together to “improve collaboration between members, to be inclusive and build a culture where everyone feels respected, included, and valued.” The Paterson Alliance represents more than 80 nonprofits in the city, and through its various activities around education, housing, food security, and other areas, it touches many families throughout the community. 

Although Paterson currently has a handful of local news outlets, (e.g. Perselay Associates and Janus Solutions, 2020; Stonbely, 2021) the bulk of the content consists of crime coverage and re-purposed press releases from local businesses. In particular, there is very little to no coverage of the activities of the nonprofits in the Alliance or the communities they serve, the issues they deal with, or the services available to them. 

The Paterson Information Hub (“Info Hub”) is a new initiative by the Alliance to provide that missing critical information to the Paterson community, beginning with a shared calendar and later also providing original journalism. The Info Hub is a partnership between Paterson Alliance and Paterson Free Public Library, which has provided resources and community connections to the effort. 

To gather the data that informed the Paterson information needs assessment, the Center for Cooperative Media conducted an online survey as well as in-person focus groups. The number of respondents for the online survey was 67; three focus groups – one in Spanish and two in English -- were hosted at the Paterson Free Public Library. The first English focus group had 3 participants, the second had 10, and the Spanish focus group had 9 participants.

Trenton (Trenton Journal)

Trenton is New Jersey’s state capital and one of its largest and best-known cities. Nearly half of its population identified in the most recent census as Black/African American, and it has a sizable Hispanic and Latinx population as well. One of the defining geographic features of Trenton is its “wards,” which are named according to their cardinal location (north, south, etc.). According to Miles the North ward is known to be the wealthiest, and has many historical buildings. The South ward, by contrast, is the least affluent. The West ward is the most suburban of the four, and the East ward is home to the high school and many of the clusters of immigrants that make up Trenton’s population. Detailed demographic info for Trenton may be found in Appendix A.

Trenton’s media market is similar to those of many cities in the sense that what used to be a relatively thriving ecosystem is now home to papers that have had their staffs and budgets cut repeatedly over the years and a handful of digital-native startups who have much smaller staffs and budgets than their legacy ancestors (e.g. Peterson’s Breaking News of Trenton). For example, in September 2022 Isaac Avilucea left The Trentonian after covering Trenton for 8 years, leaving the outlet without any full-time reporters, and leaving the state capital with very little if any watchdog coverage. Kenneth Miles started The Trenton Journal in 2021 to address some of these gaps; his goal is to produce positive stories for the Black and Brown communities in the area, focusing specifically on culture and local politics.

Trenton Journal is different from the two other outlets in this study because it had been active for more than a year at the time of the research. Miles is the main producer of content for the site and runs it in addition to working a separate full-time job. He was very enthusiastic about conducting an information needs assessment to have a better idea of who would be interested in the local news he produces and what they need that he doesn’t currently offer. 

To gather the data that informs the Trenton information needs assessment, we conducted an online survey as well as in-person focus groups. The number of respondents for the online survey was 119; the two English-language focus groups were held at the Trenton Free Public Library and Ujima Village, which is a community organization. One focus group had 10 participants and one had seven.
assistant: Acknowledged. I have received Part 1 of the paper. I will now wait for Parts 2-5 to write a comprehensive, academic review of the paper.