user: Following is part of a chapter of my thesis. Can you help me to revise or polish it to make it more readable. I wish you would underline or italicize the make where you make revisions. Thank you. 

2.3.1 Previous Studies on L2 Motivational Self-System
As an important factor affecting learning effectiveness, learners' motivation has received the attention of many researchers, who have explored the nature of motivation from various research perspectives （Wang Xiaomin & Zhang Wenzhong, 2005). Foreign language motivation has gone through four major developmental stages: 1. the psychosocial period (1959-1990); 2. the cognitive context period (1990s); 3. the process-oriented period (2000-2005); and 4. the social dynamic period (now) (Jin Haiyun, 2013). Dörnyei's L2MSS theory is the latest achievement in this period. Research at home and abroad on L2 motivational self-system can be divided into confirmatory studies of L2 motivational self-system and correlation studies of L2 motivational self-system with other variables.
2.3.1.1 Confirmatory studies of L2 motivational self-system at home and abroad
The L2MSS has got strong reactions in the academic circles since its introduction. Dörnyei and Csizer et al. (2006) conducted a large-scale empirical study in Hungary with more than 13,000 students and concluded that the ideal L2 self and the ought-to L2 self play an important role in language learning. Since this famous study, researchers have conducted a great number of empirical studies in different countries such as Hungary (Csizer & Kormos, 2009), Japan (Ryan, 2009), Iran, and China (Taguchi, Magid & Papi, 2009) to verify the validity and operationalization of L2MSS.
Csizer and Kormos (2009) took a questionnaire to investigate the similarities and differences in the motivation of Hungarian learners at different levels, and also compared the relationship between the ideal L2 self and the ought-to L2 self of the L2MSS and traditional motivation. The study verified the validity of L2MSS in the Hungarian context, and they found that the ideal L2 self, the ought-to L2 self, and the L2 learning experience are independent motivational factors. Ryan (2009) conducted an empirical study of 2397 college and high school English learners from a variety of schools and found that the ideal L2 self was very highly correlated with traditional integrative motivation, but Dörnyei's ideal L2 self was more effective than Gardner's integrative motivation in explaining motivated behavior of learners. Taguchi, Magid, and Papi (2009) carried out a large empirical study of nearly 5,000 students from three Asian countries (China, Japan, and Iran), including middle school students, college students majoring in English and non-English, and adult language learners. Through correlation analysis and structural equation modeling, this study also confirmed the validity of the three components of L2MSS and validated the theory in these three Asian countries. In China, Liu, Fengge (2012) found that the ideal L2 self is more relevant to second language motivation than the traditional integrative motivation for Chinese English learners, which is similar with the conclusion of Dörnyei and Ryan.
And then she carried out a study to test the validity of the L2MSS in a Chinese language learning context with 956 English learners of five different English levels (Elementary and middle school students, English major undergraduates, non-English major undergraduates, English major postgraduates, non-English major postgraduates) (2015). The results showed that the L2MSS is applicable to investigate the motivation of all kinds of Chinese learners who learn English as a foreign language, and the ideal L2 self is more powerful than the integrative motivation in explaining learners motivation. Since then, there has been a growing body of research on L2MSS in China.
These studies validated Dörnyei's "L2MSS" and showed that the theory can be used in different language learning contexts, which also provided insight for the implementation of this study.
assistant: 2.3.1 Previous Studies on L2 Motivational Self-System

Motivation is a crucial factor in language learning, and has been extensively studied by researchers from various perspectives (Wang Xiaomin & Zhang Wenzhong, 2005). Foreign language motivation has undergone four major developmental stages: 1) the psychosocial period (1959-1990), 2) the cognitive context period (1990s), 3) the process-oriented period (2000-2005), and 4) the social dynamic period (Jin Haiyun, 2013). Dörnyei's L2MSS theory represents the latest achievement in this period. Research on L2 motivational self-system can be classified into confirmatory studies and correlation studies.

2.3.1.1 Confirmatory Studies of L2 Motivational Self-System

Since its introduction, the L2MSS has received significant attention in academic circles. Dörnyei and Csizer et al. (2006) conducted a large-scale empirical study in Hungary with over 13,000 students, which concluded that the ideal L2 self and the ought-to L2 self play a significant role in language learning. Following this study, researchers in different countries such as Hungary (Csizer & Kormos, 2009), Japan (Ryan, 2009), Iran, and China (Taguchi, Magid & Papi, 2009) have conducted numerous empirical studies to validate and operationalize the L2MSS.

Csizer and Kormos (2009) investigated the motivation of Hungarian learners at different levels and compared the relationship between the ideal L2 self and the ought-to L2 self of the L2MSS and traditional motivation. The study confirmed the validity of L2MSS in the Hungarian context, and found that the ideal L2 self, the ought-to L2 self, and the L2 learning experience are independent motivational factors. Ryan (2009) conducted an empirical study of 2397 college and high school English learners and found that the ideal L2 self was highly correlated with traditional integrative motivation, but Dörnyei's ideal L2 self was more effective than Gardner's integrative motivation in explaining motivated behavior of learners. Taguchi, Magid, and Papi (2009) carried out a large-scale empirical study of nearly 5,000 students from China, Japan, and Iran, including middle school students, college students majoring in English and non-English, and adult language learners. Through correlation analysis and structural equation modeling, this study confirmed the validity of the three components of L2MSS and validated the theory in these three Asian countries. Liu and Fengge (2012) found that the ideal L2 self is more relevant to second language motivation than traditional integrative motivation for Chinese English learners, which is consistent with the conclusions of Dörnyei and Ryan.

Moreover, a study was conducted by a researcher to test the validity of L2MSS in a Chinese language learning context with 956 English learners of five different English levels (Elementary and middle school students, English major undergraduates, non-English major undergraduates, English major postgraduates, non-English major postgraduates) (2015). The results showed that the L2MSS is applicable to investigating the motivation of all kinds of Chinese learners who learn English as a foreign language, and the ideal L2 self is more powerful than integrative motivation in explaining learners' motivation. Since then, there has been a growing body of research on L2MSS in China.

In summary, these studies validated Dörnyei's L2MSS theory and demonstrated its applicability in different language learning contexts, which also provides valuable