user: Organize this info: 
Questions Response Comments/Context/Next Steps 
Who are our key clients? "Theresa Van Den Eeden, Industry Segments Marketing Manager – Critical Infrastructure

Viktoria Jildenkrans, Global Enterprise Segment Marketing Manager 
 
Joe Morgan, Segment Development Manager - Critical Infrastructure-Americas 
" 
What is the state of our relationship? Good - this is a new account, first project KO in November 2022 
Who do we need to engage to expand our engagement? Theresa and Viktoria? 
Status of input, umbrella and creative briefs? In process 
How did we get the engagement? Lead through BD 
What is the current state and scope/budget of engagement? $27,750.00 
What are the assignment objectives? "
- Develop new personas to be used as a foundation for creating demand gen nurtures, ads, and ABM (end of 2023)
- Move away from casting a wide net and be more specific with marketing efforts
- Long term goals include fine tuning personas and updating as a year after year project " 
Do we have a successful and encompassing campaign idea? "Starting with foundational project (persona development) then use this to evolve into content and overall marketing strategy
Also working on media planning - could use support on this potentially after persona work
" 
What is going well with the engagement? 
What needs to be improved? Messaging, they need more targeted marketing 
What are the key activation strategies and tactics? 
What do we feel they need from Spear that they are not currently utilizing? Engagement began in November 2022, so TBD 
What additional strategies, content and activations should we recommend? Content updates, nurture strategy, nurture copywriting, paid ads (strategy, design/copy) 
What are the content gaps/needs we can fill? TBD 
Who do we need to connect with to grow the engagement? Theresa, maybe Viktoria? 
Are the CTA/Offers working well or do they need to be developed further? Offers are currently generic, the personas we're developing will be used for more targeted CTA/Offers 
Goals & Objectives 
Company business objectives (quantitative and qualitative) "Position Axis as not just cameras but focus on their sensors, creating features, apps, etc simlar to the iPhone
Become a a part of the bigger picture with adaptation of AI " 
Target Audience 
Primary and secondary target profiles/personas Critical Infrastructure segment Target Audience 
What are the emotional and rational decision drivers? 
What is the most actionable insight influencing the purchase decision? 
Customer/Buyer Journey 
Outline key steps in the buyer journey Buyers purchase solutions through Channel Partners 
Who is involved in the decision process? 
What are the key drivers at each stage of the process? 
Situation Overview 
Business units 
Market dynamics: Business trends and market environment challenges 
SWOT 
Strengths (differentiation) Axis developed the IP camera in early 2000s - they are the innovative pioneers in this space. 
Weaknesses and challenges "Currently casting a wide net instead of being specific with marketing efforts. Creating lots of noise and clutter in their marketing automation.

" 
Opportunities and growth drivers They are ready to position themselves as operation efficiency experts hosting analytics, software on the edge. Opportunity in focusing on data insights their products provide customers 
Threats, barriers and obstacles "Getting a larger slice of the Axis pie since they’re selling through partners, Critical Infrastruture is a difficult segment to sell - need to make it easy for Sales (this may be the case with other segments as well)

" 
Competition 
Prioritized competitors Avigilon, Bosch, Dahua, Hanwha, Hikvision, Huawei, JCI/TYCO (excluding exacq), Motorola Solutions, Panasonic iPRO, Teledyne FLIR, VIVOTEK See additional competitors listed under "other" here 
Competitive positioning, messaging and communications Axis is an advanced AI company, 
How we sell against the competition (the differentiators) Industry leader in video surveillance 
Company/Customer Perceptions 
How does the audience think and feel about the company? 
Social sentiment/reputation 
Strategies 
Key growth strategies and initiatives 
Key markets, verticals "Industries: Oil & Gas, Power & Energy, Water & Water Waste,
Mining, Pharma/Chemical, Food & Agriculture, Automotive,
Machinery & Equipment, Refineries" 
Company Communications Platform 
Positioning Axis is an advanced AI company 
Value props Data insights help save money and maximize resources 
Key messages and benefits Operation efficiency experts hosting analytics, software on the edge. 
Tone of voice Professional, vibrant, energetic 
Research 
What research do they have and what have we received? 
What research is needed to ensure success? 
Metrics/Analytics 
How will the campaign be measured and at what cadence? 
What reporting data is available and can we access/utilize? 
Campaign Platform 
Is there a campaign architecture/framework? 
Is there a campaign communications plan and roadmap/flowchart? 
Campaign Idea/Theme 
Is there a need to develop an overarching campaign idea/theme/organizing principle? 
Is there a need to develop/enhance look and feel? (visual experience and personality)
assistant: The information is organized as follows:

1. Key clients:
* Theresa Van Den Eeden, Industry Segments Marketing Manager – Critical Infrastructure
* Viktoria Jildenkrans, Global Enterprise Segment Marketing Manager
* Joe Morgan, Segment Development Manager - Critical Infrastructure-Americas
2. Relationship with key clients: Good - this is a new account, first project KO in November 2022
3. Who to engage to expand engagement: Theresa and Viktoria
4. Status of input, umbrella, and creative briefs: In process
5. How the engagement was obtained: Lead through BD
6. Current state and scope/budget of engagement: $27,750.00
7. Assignment objectives:
* Develop new personas to be used as a foundation for creating demand gen nurtures, ads, and ABM (end of 2023)
* Move away from casting a wide net and be more specific with marketing efforts
* Long term goals include fine tuning personas and updating as a year after year project
8. Campaign idea:
* Starting with foundational project (persona development) then use this to evolve into content and overall marketing strategy
* Also working on media planning - could use support on this potentially after persona work
9. What is going well with the engagement: N/A
10. What needs to be improved: Messaging, they need more targeted marketing
11. Key activation strategies and tactics: N/A
12. What do we feel they need from Spear that they are not currently utilizing: Engagement began in November 2022, so TBD
13. Additional strategies, content and activations to recommend: Content updates, nurture strategy, nurture copywriting, paid ads (strategy, design/copy)
14. Content gaps/needs we can fill: TBD
15. Who to connect with to grow the engagement: Theresa, maybe Viktoria
16. CTA/Offers working well or need further development: Offers are currently generic, the personas we're developing will be used for more targeted CTA/Offers
17. Goals and Objectives:
* Company business objectives (quantitative and qualitative):
	+ Position Axis as not just cameras but focus on their sensors, creating features, apps, etc similar to the iPhone
	+ Become a part of the bigger picture with adaptation of AI
18. Target Audience:
* Primary and secondary target profiles/personas: Critical Infrastructure segment
* Emotional and rational decision drivers: N/A
* Most actionable insight influencing the purchase decision: N/A
19. Customer/Buyer Journey:
* Outline key steps in the buyer journey: Buyers purchase solutions through Channel Partners
* Who is involved in the decision process: N/A
* Key drivers at each stage of the process: N/A
20. Situation Overview:
* Business units: N/A
* Market dynamics: Business trends and market environment challenges: N/A
* SWOT:
	+ Strengths (differentiation): Axis developed the IP camera in early 2000s - they are the innovative pioneers in this space.
	+ Weaknesses and challenges: Currently casting a wide net instead of being specific with marketing efforts. Creating lots of noise and clutter in their marketing automation.
	+ Opportunities and growth drivers: They are ready to position themselves as operation efficiency experts hosting analytics, software on the edge. Opportunity in focusing on data insights their products provide customers
	+ Threats, barriers and obstacles: Getting a larger slice of the Axis pie since they’re selling through partners,
user: What do we know about Axis's business?
assistant: Based on the information provided, we know that Axis is a company that specializes in advanced AI and IP cameras. They are pioneers in this space, having developed the IP camera in the early 2000s. They are looking to position themselves as operation efficiency experts and focus on the data insights their products provide customers. However, they are currently facing challenges with their marketing efforts, casting a wide net and creating a lot of noise and clutter in their marketing automation. They are looking to move away from this approach and be more specific with their marketing efforts. They are also looking to position themselves as not just cameras, but also focus on their sensors, creating features, apps, etc. similar to the iPhone.