assistant: Dude, you gotta hear this gnarly story about this kid Hyrum, man. This little dude's got some seriously bad luck vibes or something. So, like, he's cruisin' in a car, right? And then, bam! Car accident, and he breaks his collarbone. Bummer, bro.

But it doesn't end there. His big bro, Alexander, is like super into baseball, man. And he's just hittin' some balls, when he accidentally smacks Hyrum right in the forehead with the bat. Whoa, talk about a wipeout!

Now, you'd think that's enough, but no way, dude. His other brother, Benedick, is out fishin', and he's just castin' his line, trying to catch some sick waves—uh, I mean, fish. But instead, he hooks Hyrum's scalp. Ouch, man, that's gotta hurt.

And then, there's his third brother, Cassius. They're all chillin' at the beach, and this guy throws a snorkeling mask at Hyrum's head. Like, what are the odds, bro? It's like this kid's got some bad juju or something.

Anyway, man, even though they've been through all this heavy stuff, they're still, like, a super tight family, y'know? They're all, "We're gonna ride this wave together, dudes." And, like, that's pretty rad.

So I guess the moral of the story is, even when life's throwin' you some gnarly wipeouts, your fam's always got your back. And maybe, like, stay away from baseball bats and fishing hooks, dude. Just stick to the surfboard, bro.
user: Do the same but with like 110% more surfer bro style.
assistant: Duuuude, you gotta, like, totally check out this mondo bummer story about this little grommet Hyrum, man. This dude's vibes are, like, way harsh, man. So, he's cruisin' in a car, catchin' some land waves, right? And then, like, ka-blam! Car accident, bro, and he straight up busts his collarbone. Bummer to the max, bro!

But, like, it doesn't just end there, man. His big bro, Alexander, is like wicked stoked on baseball, dude. And he's just swingin' for the fences, when he, like, accidentally smacks Hyrum right in the noggin with the bat. Whoa, man, talk about a total wipeout! Banged up, dude, for sure.

Now, you'd think that's enough, but no way, man. His other brother, Benedick, is out fishin', and he's just castin' his line, trying to reel in some gnarly fish, bro. But instead, he, like, hooks Hyrum's scalp. Ouch, man, that's gotta sting worse than a gnarly jellyfish.

And then, there's his third bro, Cassius. They're all chillaxin' at the beach, catchin' some rays, and this dude hurls a snorkeling mask at Hyrum's head. Like, seriously, what are the odds, bro? It's like this kid's got some bad juju or something.

Anyway, man, even though they've been through all this heavy stuff, they're still, like, a super tight family, y'know? They're all, "We're gonna ride this wave together, dudes." And, like, that's pretty rad.

So I guess the moral of the story is, even when life's throwin' you some gnarly wipeouts, your fam's always got your back. And maybe, like, stay away from baseball bats and fish hooks, dude. Just stick to the surfboard, and always remember, bro: surf's up and ride the good vibes, man!
user: Now with 200% more surfer bro.
assistant: Duuuuuude, like, you've totally gotta check out this, like, epic bummer story about this lil' grommet Hyrum, man. This bro's vibes are, like, waaaaay harsh, man. So, he's cruisin' in a car, catchin' some gnarly land waves, right? And then, like, mega ka-blam! Car accident, bro, and he straight up annihilates his collarbone. Bummer to the max, broseidon!

But, like, it doesn't just end there, man. His big bro, Alexander, is like ultra stoked on baseball, dude. And he's just swingin' for the fences, when he, like, accidentally clocks Hyrum right in the noggin with the bat. Whoa, man, talk about a mondo wipeout! Banged up, dude, for sure.

Now, you'd think that's enough, but no way, man. His other brother, Benedick, is out fishin', and he's just castin' his line, trying to reel in some, like, tubular fish, bro. But instead, he, like, hooks Hyrum's scalp. Ouch, man, that's gotta sting worse than a gnarly jellyfish, brotato chip.

And then, there's his third bro, Cassius. They're all chillaxin' at the beach, catchin' some sick rays, and this dude chucks a snorkeling mask at Hyrum's head. Like, seriously, what are the odds, bro? It's like this kid's got some bad juju or somethin', man.

Anyway, man, even though they've been through all this heavy stuff, they're still, like, a super tight family, y'know? They're all, "We're gonna ride this wave together, dudes." And, like, that's pretty rad, brochacho.

So I guess the moral of the story is, even when life's throwin' you some gnarly wipeouts, your fam's always got your back. And maybe, like, stay away from baseball bats and fish hooks, dude. Just stick to the surfboard, and always remember, bro: surf's up and ride the good vibes, man! Keep it, like, 200% more chill, brosef!