user: Here it is:
This story probably always was a fairy tale, and certainly is one now. The ultra-Orthodox community now represents 13 percent of all Israelis, including one-third of all Israeli primary school students. Families among the ultra-Orthodox and national religious settlers average seven children, compared to three children in the average Israeli family.

Within the Israeli electorate, as it is presently composed, urban and coastal plain liberals are vastly outnumbered. In the mid-1990s equal numbers of Israeli Jews identified themselves as right-wing and left-wing. In a typical 2022 poll, 62 percent of Israeli Jews identified themselves with the right, compared to just 11 percent who identified with the left. The nationalist, social-democratically oriented Labor Party has performed dismally in recent elections. Although it dominated Israeli politics for the state’s first three decades, it has been reduced to a mere 4 out of 120 seats in the present Knesset. The liberal-dovish Meretz party failed to win any seats at all.

In American parlance, Israel is now a deeply red state. From something like Ohio or Pennsylvania in the 1980s, Israel has become Oklahoma or Idaho. In the long run this can change, but only if Israel democratizes. For the last several elections, center and left Jewish parties have known that they could be partners in a governing coalition only if Arabs voted in large numbers. But even with the help of the almost 2 million Palestinian citizens of Israel, it has been nearly a quarter of a century since a center-left coalition has managed to form a government.

Given the spectacular rates of population increase in the communities that have given the present government its hold over parliament, the only way to achieve a firm majority in favor of a “state of all its citizens” is for liberal democratic Jews to ally with Palestinians.
Protesters unload a model of an hourglass during ongoing protests against controversial hard-right legal reforms 
in Tel Aviv on March 23.
Protesters unload a model of an hourglass during ongoing protests against controversial hard-right legal reforms in Tel Aviv on March 23.
 INSIDER
Ehud Barak: Why Netanyahu Will Fall
A former Israeli prime minister explains why he thinks people power will prevail.
By Ravi Agrawal
An 1865 engraving shows formerly enslaved people celebrating after their emancipation in the United States, with an inset image of President Abraham Lincoln.
An 1865 engraving shows formerly enslaved people celebrating after their emancipation in the United States, with an inset image of President Abraham Lincoln.
An 1865 engraving shows formerly enslaved people celebrating after their emancipation in the United States, with an inset image of President Abraham Lincoln.MPI/GETTY IMAGES
A proper perspective on the crisis in Israel entails understanding it not as the climax of a process but as the beginning of a protracted political war. What is at stake, ultimately, is not only the character of the regime—liberal democratic versus ethnocratic authoritarian—but also the fundamental character of the state ruled by that regime.

Thinking about this crisis as one of identity as well as rights means considering a comparable historical case, in which a country faced civil war over laws that could not be tolerated by half its citizenry—an issue that could only be resolved by transforming fundamental beliefs about what the country was and who belonged in it.

In 1858, Abraham Lincoln—then a candidate for the Senate—spoke against the continuing insistence by slave states that slavery be extended to Kansas, Nebraska, and other western territories. Warning of a necessary crisis before the problem would be solved, Lincoln said: “A house divided against itself cannot stand. I believe this government cannot endure, permanently half slave and half free. … It will become all one thing, or all the other.”

Lincoln was speaking of a war he saw coming, a war over whether the United States would be a country in which slavery would eventually be extinguished or a country forever and everywhere marked by enslavement and policies of oppression—policies directed against freed Blacks, of course, but also, eventually, against abolitionist whites.

Instructively, it was the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in the Dred Scott case, that Congress had no authority to ban slavery in some parts of the country, that led to a civil war that ended with the banning of slavery in all parts of the country.

It was the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision that Congress had no authority to ban slavery in some parts of the country that led to a civil war that ended with the banning of slavery in all parts of the country.

One in 10 Israeli Jews now lives across the 1949 armistice lines that used to demarcate the border of the state of Israel—a boundary no longer registered by official maps of the country. In the single state that now exists between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean Sea, all inhabitants—whether they live in the Gaza Strip, Judea and Samaria, the Jordan Valley, the Golan Heights, expanded East Jerusalem, or within the 1949 armistice lines—are subject to the decisions of the same government.

In each of these areas, different groups suffer from or enjoy the protection of laws, the effects of policies, and the assistance or consequences of police actions passed, promulgated, and ordered by the same government. If these circumstances are understood for the one-state reality they represent, Lincoln’s analysis can be seen to illuminate Israel’s future today as clearly as it did the future of the United States in the late 1850s.

When civil war first erupted in the United States, few talked of the struggle as being about whether the vast population of stigmatized Black non-citizens would eventually enjoy the same political rights as the white population. Even Lincoln himself spoke of miscegenation as the great threat and of returning freed slaves to Africa as the solution to the nation’s racial problem. We therefore should not expect the real political stakes of a struggle as fundamental as that faced by the United States in the 1850s or by Israel now to be framed explicitly by the contending sides.

What we should expect, however, is that crises that shake and change and destroy regimes can also transform thinking about what a country is, who its rightful inhabitants are, and which identities will be privileged, stigmatized, or honored. The United States’ bloody 1860s were the beginning of generations of change that proved Lincoln correct.

Once U.S. slavery was ended, Jim Crow took its place; but vigilante violence, prejudice, and persecution could not keep democratic politics from eventually opening opportunities for political emancipation and the alliances enabled by it. The Democratic Party, raised on racism and anchored in segregation and southern exclusion of Black Americans from political life, ended up finding electoral salvation in an alliance with Black people and other minorities, uniting with a vision of the country that its political ancestors would have abhorred—had they even been capable of imagining it.

That is the magic of democratic politics, of the onetime arch-segregationist George Wallace winning his fourth term as governor of Alabama in 1982 by kissing Black babies. The result of this long process of struggle, value change, and political realignment was a multicultural, multiracial liberal democracy—flawed, but intact and a world away from what the regime was when Lincoln spoke.

Though unable to speak its own deepest truth, the current Israeli government is committed, above all, to Jewish supremacy and to the transformation of the very partially liberal, not wholly democratic regime that has existed for 75 years into one capable of permanently excluding half the state’s population from the exercise of political rights.

Jewish protesters against the Netanyahu government’s attempted legal putsch are committed, above all, to the protection of their property and prerogatives as Israeli citizens. Not being Arabs, they benefit from the facade of egalitarian liberalism associated with Israel’s self-presentation as a Jewish and democratic state.

Anti-government demonstrators are unwilling to acknowledge that they cannot win a struggle to make Israel a liberal democracy without forming an alliance with a fully enfranchised Palestinian population.

The government and its allies are unwilling to declare that an apartheid-style regime, based on explicit, systematic discrimination in favor of Jews, is exactly what the country needs to manage the absorption of the West Bank and Gaza they desire.

Meanwhile, the anti-government demonstrators—still dangerously attached to the idea of a Jewish state and the two-state solution mirage that protects it—are unwilling to acknowledge that they cannot win a struggle to make Israel a liberal democracy without forming an alliance with a large, fully enfranchised, and highly mobilized Palestinian population.

Perhaps the most likely outcome of the current crisis is a reformulation of the judicial reforms sufficient to quiet the protests without bringing on the immediate fall of the government. Such an outcome may result in a temporary political cease-fire.

But as bloodshed, raids, pogroms, rocket attacks, and reprisals associated with Israeli domination of the West Bank and Gaza escalate, the deeper crisis will continue.

When, eventually, masses of Jewish protesters demand equal rights for Palestinians, partly because they will no longer be able to protect their own rights without Palestinian help, then we will know that the decisive battle has begun.
assistant: The article draws a parallel between the current crisis in Israel and the U.S. Civil War. The U.S. Civil War was fought over the issue of slavery and the rights of African Americans, while the Israeli crisis is centered on the proposed judicial reforms and the broader issue of identity and rights for both Jewish and Palestinian citizens.

The comparison highlights how both crises are rooted in questions of identity, rights, and citizenship. In the U.S. Civil War, the division between slave and free states was unsustainable, leading to a civil war that eventually abolished slavery and transformed the nation's understanding of citizenship and rights. Similarly, in Israel, the conflict between Jewish and Palestinian citizens and their rights within the country is a point of contention that the article suggests could lead to a transformation of the nation's understanding of identity and belonging.

The article also points out that during the U.S. Civil War, the real political stakes were not immediately apparent or explicitly framed by the contending sides. However, the struggle eventually led to significant changes in the nation's values, identities, and politics. The author argues that the current Israeli crisis may follow a similar trajectory, with the deeper issues at stake not yet fully realized by the parties involved.

The article suggests that the Israeli government is committed to Jewish supremacy and seeks to create a regime that can permanently exclude Palestinians from political rights. On the other hand, Jewish protesters are fighting to protect their property and rights as Israeli citizens, but they have not yet acknowledged the necessity of forming an alliance with Palestinians to achieve a truly liberal democracy.

The author implies that Israel's crisis, like the U.S. Civil War, could lead to a transformation of the nation's values and understanding of citizenship and rights, with the potential for a more inclusive, egalitarian society emerging from the conflict.