assistant: Transcript 4:

Introduce yourself (Basic intro of respondent and demographics)

1. I am Anjali and I hail from Delhi, India. Currently I am a student pursuing my graduation

Which channel do you prefer while shopping for apparel, offline or online?
2. I prefer offline as I like to try and feel the clothes before making a purchase

What type of products do you generally buy online/offline?
3. I buy mostly books and electronics online while I buy apparel, groceries and cosmetics offline

What is the purchase frequency for your apparel purchases?
4. I purchase apparel whenever I require them. Sometimes it's once a month and sometimes once in 3 months

What type of apparel you love to purchase more frequently?
5. I love purchasing dresses and tops more frequently as they are easy to style and can be worn for different occasions

Why do you prefer while buying - online or offline? What parameters do you look at while buying?
6. I prefer offline as I can try the clothes before making a purchase. I look at the fit, quality, style, and price while buying.

Do you see prices online while buying offline or vice versa for comparison?
7. Yes, I do check online prices before making a purchase offline. If I find a better deal online, I might purchase it from there instead of offline.

What factors influence your decision for an apparel purchase?
8. Fit, Quality, Style, Price, and Brand influence my decision for an apparel purchase.
user: Transcript 4: Dolly Vijay

Q. Hello ma’am. Can you start with introducing yourself? 

A. My name’s Dolly and I’m from New Delhi. I work as a Quality Associate at Amazon.

Q. So the first question to you is which channel do you prefer while shopping for apparel, offline or online?

A. I prefer to shop online.

Q. And what are the type of products that you generally buy online/offline ?

A. The products which I buy most often online are clothes and I prefer buying electronics offline.

Q. What is the purchase frequency for your apparel purchases?

A. The frequency of shopping mostly depends on personal preferences and changing fashion. I do it once every 2 to 3 months..

Q. What type of apparel you love to purchase more frequently?

A. I like wearing one pieces, baggy jeans, sweaters, hoodies etc, the goal is to be able to dress for any occasion, any season, any reason with less effort.

Q. What do you prefer while buying - online or offline? What parameters do you look at while buying ?

A. I prefer buying online because there are too many options available and apps offer huge discounts too.

Q. Do you see prices online while buying offline or vice versa for comparison?

A. Yes, I do check the prices

Q. What factors influence your decision for an apparel purchase?

A. Price, quality and how trendy the product is

Interviewer: Thanks a lot Dolly for giving us your time. This will really help us with our research.

Dolly: You’re welcome. 
Transcript 5: Lakshay Gulati
Q. Hello sir. Please introduce yourself.

A. I am Lakshay, an MBA student in first year pursing Marketing at IMT ghaziabad

Q. So, I believe you shop a lot. My first question to you is which channel do you prefer while shopping for apparel, offline or online?

A. I usually prefer online mode of shopping unless buying a luxury item for which feel is very important.

Q. And what are the type of products that you generally buy online/offline ?

A. I usually buy clothes and skin care products through online channels

Q. What is the purchase frequency for your apparel purchases?

A. I buy an apparel item almost every 2 weeks

Q. What type of apparel you love to purchase more frequently?

A. I love to buy streetwear Tshirts every once and now cos they're not that expensive and allows me to fulfil my shopping desire.

Q. What do you prefer while buying - online or offline? What parameters do you look at while buying ?

A. I prefer Online only cos of the insane variety it offers sitting at home. I can have access to every brand and every item of the brand unlike different stores has different apparels stock.

Q. Do you see prices online while buying offline or vice versa for comparison?

A. No, I consider the MRP stays the same for online/offline while Online offers some major discounts all over the year.

Q. What factors influence your decision for an apparel purchase?

A. Price, design, delivery charge, return policy are the factors I see to purchase the apparel

Interviewer: Thank you so much Lakshay for your valuable time. Your insights will definitely help us in our research project.

Lakshay: Anytime. Pleasure is mine.

Transcript 6: Saloni Narangg 

Q. Hello ma’am. Can you please introduce yourself?

A. I am Saloni Narang from Gurgaon, Haryana. Currently pursuing my masters degree from NMIMS Mumbai..

Q. So I would like to start this conversation by asking you which channel do you prefer while shopping for apparel, offline or online?

A. I prefer both depending on the type of purchase and occasion for purchase. For regular, western wear, I generally go for Online channels and for ethnic wear & party wear, I tend to go for offline channel.

Q. What type of products do you generally buy online/offline ?

A. For regular, western wear, I generally go for Online channels and for ethnic wear & party wear, I tend to go for offline channel

Q. What is the purchase frequency for your apparel purchases?

A. I generally purchase apparels including tops, dresses, T-shirts almost every month using online channels. Ethnic/party wear, only when situation demands me to buy those clothes.

Q. What type of apparel you love to purchase more frequently?

A. I generally purchase t-shirts, tops, dresses, etc. more often.
Q. What do you prefer while buying - online or offline? What parameters do you look at while buying ?

A. I prefer online mode dưe to the Ease of buying, availability of choices, ease of comparison and that there is no hassle of going to different stores, etc. Quality factor is taken care of because of easy return/exchange options available

Q. Do you see prices online while buying offline or vice versa for comparison?

A. I look at price and quality of clothes while buying expensive clothes (mostly ethnic/party wear)

Q. What factors influence your decision for an apparel purchase?

A. Factors that influence my purchase decisions include Brand, quality, fit, style, type of cloth, price.

Interviewer: Thanks Saloni. Your responses will help us in a better analysis.

Saloni: Welcome. Do reach out if you have any more questions.
assistant: Thank you, Saloni, for your time and willingness to participate. We appreciate your insights.