assistant: Client: One10 Marketing

Contact: Richelle Suver, Vice President of Strategic Marketing

Location: Dayton, Ohio

Email: [richelle.suver@one10marketing.com](mailto:richelle.suver@one10marketing.com)

Phone: 937-829-6848

LinkedIn: <https://www.linkedin.com/in/richelletaylor/>

Company LinkedIn: <https://www.linkedin.com/company/one10inc/>

Website: <https://www.one10marketing.com/>

Company Size: 416 employees

Tagline: "Believe in Better. Incentive and Reward Programs That Are Future-Proofed"

Description: One10 provides a range of services to align business goals with employee, dealer, channel partner, and customer needs. The company offers incentives and recognition programs, travel and events, and marketing services. The team has expertise in developing programs that inform, engage, and reward stakeholders.
user: Summarize these notes: 
Free Form Notes
in very early stages of considering outsourcing marketing
relatively immature marketing/demand gen
3 people on marketing team
has demand gen, product marketing persons
have some contractors for website/SEO
that team does outbound
recent shift: one marketer leaving
been around decades
"we have no traditional CRM"....got cheapo CRM last yr
Oracle netsuite as ERP
Sharpspring for CRM
made case for CRM
has done email campaigns in SharpSrping - segment by engaged/not engaed.... has done some title targeting, not industry yet
incentive TECHNOLOGY
redeem points for gifts/travel
historic marketing has been generic
Zoomingo - filtered lists
go after insurance in 2022
fair amount of google ads - download whitepaper
tested linkedin ads - outsourced to some TOFU companies...didn't go anywhere, wrong titles
tried cold calling
webinars galore
certain kws tough/expensive with google... "it's been ok"...2% conversion
webinars not driving opportunities
Linkedin has driven conversations
email campaigns have driven conversations
Oracle responsys as email tool
worked with 2 companies which automated messages on LinkedIn - but linkedin clamped down on it
need: demand gen strategy + execution....extension of team given their team losing a person
drove more opps and RFPs last yr
"founders don't believe it will work in this industry" - skeptical of demand gen
but results last yr gave the traction^^^
assistant: The client is in the early stages of considering outsourcing their marketing efforts. They have a relatively immature marketing and demand generation team, with three people currently on the team. They have some contractors for website and SEO work, and the team focuses on outbound marketing efforts. Recently, one member of the team is leaving, which has prompted the consideration of outsourcing. The client uses Oracle NetSuite as their ERP system and Sharpspring for their CRM. They have done some email campaigns and tested LinkedIn and Google ads, but have not had success with these efforts. They are looking to focus on the insurance industry in 2022. The client is interested in a demand generation strategy and execution to help drive more opportunities and RFPs. However, the founders are skeptical about the effectiveness of demand generation in their industry.
user: Again with more detail and in a more digestible form.
assistant: The client is a company that has been in business for several decades and is considering outsourcing their marketing efforts. Their current marketing team is relatively small and immature, with three people on the team. They have some contractors for website and SEO work, and the team focuses on outbound marketing efforts. Recently, one member of the team is leaving, which has prompted the consideration of outsourcing.

The client uses Oracle NetSuite as their ERP system and Sharpspring for their CRM. They have done some email campaigns and tested LinkedIn and Google ads, but have not had much success with these efforts. They are looking to focus on the insurance industry in 2022.

The client is interested in a demand generation strategy and execution to help drive more opportunities and RFPs. However, the founders are skeptical about the effectiveness of demand generation in their industry. They are looking for a team to help develop and execute a strategy that will help them generate more leads and improve their marketing efforts.
user: Organize this:
"From Richelle: They both can speak more specifically about where they could use help from an agency like yours.

Thought starters may include:

Specialized messaging for our Google Ads
Content creation for LI or other social channels
6sense and how we may be able to use for account based growth"
only 3 sales people on team
used to have demand gen specialist
50 client services folks, a number of those do sell ( to current clients primarily)
outsource demand to spear vs hire internally
has pr contractor that does content for blog
has seo contractor with web stuff
does ppc as well^^^ room for improvement
demand gen audit and roadmap would be helpful
has number of lists in system

been learning a lot about mid market over last year
more industry approach this year -- focus on Insurance vertical 0-- 300 target accounts
ONLY insurance
been horizontal approach historically
has referenceable clients in insurance space
case study for insurance NEEDED likely
send case studies / references
drift implementation? - option for hours
built first 4 playbooks in drift already, working with drift team

3/2/22 - Robin & Jon connect
Sami left unexpectedly a couple months ago
they've been reconfiguring budget
"I think we're close"
just had a couple changes she says
rather than just insurance
lost BD rep too, only 2 left
40 accts they want to focus on, half are INS, half are other industries
6 MONTH TEST WITH SPEAR
month 1 strategy, get v1 pilot in market in months 2 & 3, build on it/optimize from there; show sales is booking meetings within 6 months
she is going to formally recommend moving forward, needs Richelle's approval

"I would be interested to know what/how you would approach our discussion based on knowing the following:

 

I. Sales: Two target audiences:

Middle market ($550M in revenue +)
ABM and Enterprise market (2B+)
 

We have a particular interest in Insurance and Telecom as sectors for focus, but we are open to auto, finance, pharma, manufacturing, hospitality, healthcare retail and tech. (No education, government, non-profit).

 

II. Website – Wordpress with current Drift implementation in process

III. Products and Services – we have a variety (which is great at times but also confusing). Do we choose one or two?

IV. Marketing Tools – Netsuite, Sharpspring, Responsys, Zoominfo, Social, SEO, Content, and grass roots"

11/29/22 - Jon and Robin reconnect
Hi Jon—It’s been a long time. Hope you are doing well. A lot has changed at One10 and we are now in a great place to work with a Demand Gen Agency. Do you have some time to catch up the week after Thanksgiving? Thanks.
Tech on website now showing: HubSpot, Sharpspring, Mailmunch, Wordpress, Drift
Content is need
just finishing implementing HubSpot.....sunsetting Sharpspring
Richelle is CRO now - leading marketing and sales/CS now
has marketing and sales hub for hubspot
Beginning implementation of 6sense with all the intent data too
3rd thing - evaluating uberflip, folloze, RockContent (has services too)
MISSING CONTENT WITH SMALL MKTG TEAM
content strategy for CX platforms, content creation
net new content creation a lot
historic content creation hasnt been for demand gen, moreso for sales enablement
abby helped implement hubspot
may need nurture support, not sure
Robin, Abby, Usra, those are their whole team
they sound excited about all new platforms
wants to decide by end of year
has use it or lose it by end of yr....and has next yr budget for agnecy too
$50k-$60k for this year
2023 agency for next yr - $100k with some flexibility
decision this week or next on content experience platform
CONTENT STRATEGY (audit?, 6sense, CX platform....go through content do content gap analysis,, content map, journey mapping
has started high level buyer journey with content alignemnt + gaps....7-8 months ago
other big initiative - upsell initatives for current client base...sell I&R services....BDRs reaching into multi million dollar accounts
who are potential other buyers within existing accounts, what do we say to them, messaging
has 3rd party SEO contractor.... may have interest in our services for that
wants examples of SEO what they get for month
current SEO budget is pretty insignfiicatn....frees up some money
assistant: The client is a company that offers a range of products and services, with a focus on the insurance and telecom industries. They have a small marketing team and have recently implemented HubSpot and are in the process of implementing 6sense. They are also evaluating content experience platforms, such as Uberflip and Folloze. The client is interested in a demand generation strategy and execution to help drive more opportunities and RFPs, as well as support for their upsell initiatives for existing clients. They have a budget of $50k-$60k for the rest of this year and $100k for next year for an agency to help with these efforts. They are hoping to make a decision on the content experience platform by the end of the year.