user: Figure 4 provides an overview of our fndings on SAV deployment,
for packets both outbound from and inbound to the measured network, for the year ending 1 August 2019. We present deployment
statistics by IPv4/24 and IPv6/40 prefxes, and by AS. An AS with
partial deployment originates some prefxes from which the Spoofer
system did not receive spoofed packets, and originates other prefxes from which the Spoofer system did.
This data indicates that while most networks block packets with
spoofed source IP addresses, deployment is far from universal. In
particular, 25.2% and 32.1% of tested IPv4 and IPv6 ASes, respectively, had at least one prefx where operators had not deployed SAV
to block outbound spoofed packets to the Internet (frst and last
bars in fgure 4b). The comparatively small fraction of prefxes from
which we received spoofed IPv4 packets (fgure 4a) is primarily due
to the presence of Network Address Translation (NAT) routers that
rewrite spoofed packets with the router’s publicly routable address.
When a NAT router was not present, 14.9% of IPv4 prefxes had no
fltering; fltering was better deployed at prefx-level granularity in
IPv6, with 12.3% of tested prefxes not fltering. Outbound from Client (AS) Inbound to Client (prefix) Inbound to Client (AS)
Outbound from Client (prefix)
 80 100
IPv4
IPv4 NAT
IPv4 No−NAT
IPv6
IPv4
IPv4 NAT
IPv4 No−Nat
IPv6
IPv4
IPv6
IPv4
IPv6
 0 20 40 60 80 100
7.3%
6.4%
14.9%
12.3%
11.9−25.2%
22.0%
21.1−30.5%
24.5−32.1%
42.6%
62.2%
59.2−67.0%
68.6−74.2%
(a)
(c)
(d)
Percentage with Classification
 0
Partial Rewritten Blocked
(b)
No Filtering
 20 40 60
Figure 4: Summary statistics for Spoofer Project for the year
ending August 2019. Percent values to right of barplot indicate the fraction of networks with problematic SAV deployments, either no fltering or partial fltering of spoofed packets (red plus orange segments).
The lower panels of fgure 4 (c and d) summarize the observed
state of fltering of packets inbound to the client’s network, claiming
to be from within the same subnet as the client. This test sends a
packet to the client with a source address that is inside the same
subnet as the client. For IPv4 we toggle the last (31st) bit of the
address, and for IPv6 we toggle the 120th bit. Surprisingly, inbound
fltering of spoofed packets is even less deployed than outbound fltering, despite these packets being a threat to the receiving network.
Deploying this type of fltering is incentive-compatible because internal hosts are often more trusted than external hosts [46]. In our
data, 67.0% and 74.2% of IPv4 and IPv6 ASes, respectively, had at
least one prefx where they were not fltering inbound packets.
We compare the IPv4 tests we received for the year ending August 2019 where the client was not behind a NAT, to the same class
of tests 1 May 2006 to 7 May 2006, during which the project received
1057 tests, triggered by an article on Slashdot encouraging readers
to run the original Spoofer test [61] (lower left panel of fgure 2).
For the frst week of May 2006, 18.3% of IPv4/24 prefxes and 20.4%
of ASes tested did not block spoofed-source packets from leaving
their networks. Figure 4 shows that for the year ending August
2019, 14.9% of IPv4/24 prefxes and 30.5% of ASes tested did not
block spoofed-source packets, implying that SAV deployment has
not generally improved.
We reinforce this result by considering the infuence of a prefx’s
age – defned as how long it has been observable in the global
BGP routing table – on the probability that it performs source address validation. One hypothesis is that older networks are more
 0.05
 0.1
 0.15
 0.2
 0 50 100 150 200 250
Prefix Age (Months)
Fraction of Spoofable Tests
 0
f(x) = 0.0000262x + 0.08
Figure 5: For Spoofer tests collected between May 2016 and
August 2019, we found no correlation between prefx age
(measured as frst appearance in the global BGP routing table) and its probability of SAV deployment (as measured by
a client in that prefx performing a test).
mature and hence have better hygiene. However, newer networks
may have newer equipment, less confguration inertia, and better
awareness of network security. The increasing prevalence of address transfers post-IPv4-exhaustion adds additional noise to this
already speculative exercise.
We generate a radix trie of prefx ages by iterating over monthly
snapshots of Routeviews [1] and RIPE RIS from January 2000 to
August 2019. The meta-data in the radix trie for each prefx is the
date it frst appeared in our snapshots. Note that prefx aggregation
and deaggregation over time result in new ages within the radix
trie – i.e., a deaggregation is a new BGP policy and hence resets the
age. Let t0(p) be the time at which the IPv4 prefx p frst appeared
in the global BGP routing table. For a client with IPv4 address c
who performs a Spoofer test at time t, we fnd the longest matching
prefx p
′ = LPM(c,t) within the radix trie at time t. The prefx age
is then relative to the time of the test:
aдe(c,t) = t − t0(LPM(c,t))
For each Spoofer client using a routed source address, we determined the age of the corresponding client prefx. We binned results
into months and determined the relative fraction of tests within
each age bin that could successfully spoof the routed IPv4 address.
Figure 5 shows the relationship between the fraction of tests where
a client could spoof and the age of the prefx to which the client
belonged. Using Pearson’s correlation, we found no meaningful
relationship between age and spoofability.
5 EPISTEMOLOGICAL CHALLENGES WITH
CROWD-SOURCING MEASUREMENT
A crowd-sourced approach to assessing the deployment of SAV
is confounded by multiple factors. First, the opt-in nature of the
measurement can induce sample bias: people interested in security issues are more likely to provide a measurement. Second, and
related, the measurement results we receive are distributed nonuniformly across time and networks. Third, the Internet itself is
changing, e.g., due to equipment upgrades, confguration changes,
and policy changes. Fourth, the results of a single test may not
be indicative of the larger network, prefx, or autonomous system
from which the client executes its test.
 140
Weeks Active
Cumulative Fraction
Longest matching prefix
 0
 0.2
 0.4 AS
 0.6
 0.8
 1
 0 20 40 60 80 100 120
/24 prefix
Figure 6: Even with periodic weekly probing by the client,
only 8% of IPv4 /24 prefxes and 23% of ASes reported measurements in 20 or more weeks in data we collected between
May 2016 and August 2019.
This sparsity complicates inferences of remediation. For instance,
if two samples from an AS are signifcantly separated in time and
from diferent prefxes, and the frst sample indicates the tested
network permits spoofng, while the second indicates fltering, there
could be several diferent explanations for the change. The tested
network might have deployed SAV across their network, fxing the
frst prefx; or the frst tested prefx might still permit spoofng.
5.1 Efect of daemonizing Spoofer client
We attempted to mitigate sampling concerns by daemonizing the
Spoofer client, i.e., running the client in the background after installation, executing measurements any time the client detected a
new attached network, and repeating tests weekly on previously
seen networks. In addition to obtaining more test samples, daemonizing the Spoofer client allows the system to automatically gather
longitudinal samples of the same network – data that is useful to
characterize the evolution of fltering policies.
Because we do not use a client identifer (§3) it is not possible
to determine whether a specifc client continues to probe after its
initial installation. Instead, we must estimate the ability of the periodic daemon to gather longitudinal data for a given /24 prefx,
longest matching BGP prefx, or AS. Figure 6 displays the cumulative fraction of these as a function of the number of active weeks.
We defne an active week to be any week for which there is a test
report from a client with the daemon functionality.
Unfortunately, even with the daemon, 44% of the IPv4 /24 prefxes
and 32% of the ASes reported measurements in only a single week
between May 2016 and August 2019. This may be due to either
users who run the tool once and then uninstall it after obtaining
their test result, or infrequent or one-of tests performed by clients
while they are roaming, e.g., mobile hosts that attach infrequently
to a hotel or airport network. Although unexpected, these results
are also consistent with feedback from operators that told us they
used the client on a short-term basis while they were testing SAV
confguration and then uninstalled the software from their laptop.
While our coverage is longitudinally sparse for many networks,
fgure 6 exhibits long tails. In particular, for large providers, we
have tests in every week. For example, we obtained test results from
clients in AT&T, Comcast, Verizon, Deutsche Telekom, Charter, and
Cox in nearly all of the weeks since the release of the daemonized
client – May 2016 to August 2019.5.2 Representativeness of Spoofer data
Another inferential challenge of crowd-sourced measurement is
assessing how representative the data is of the networks it samples,
and the larger Internet [21]. Since the measurements we receive
come from volunteers, both on-demand and triggered by clients
detecting new network attachments, we do not control the sampling
across either networks or time. While we can characterize the
coverage of our results by, e.g., networks, ASes, or geolocation,
this characterization does not capture the degree to which our
measurements correctly capture the behavior of those networks.
To gain confdence in the data’s representativeness of the networks it covers, we assess the data’s predictive ability – i.e., whether
we can use the data to predict the ability of a client to spoof using
an IP address we have no prior tests from. We use the standard
train-then-test supervised learning approach, but always split the
training and test sets such that the training samples are chronologically before the test samples. We analyze the data on month
boundaries, such that the model is trained on all data prior to a
given month and tested on all data for the month and after. In this
way, we simulate predictions over future tests given the available
data we have to that point.
We built a simple per-prefx model of spoofability that operates
in ascending chronological order over training samples. Our algorithm determines the global BGP prefx from which the client ran
the test using an August 2019 RIB snapshot from route-views2 [1].
We then label (or update) the prefx in a radix-trie with the client’s
spoofng status. To account for variations across policies of individual networks within larger BGP prefxes, we also label the spoofng
status of the more specifc /24 prefx of the client. The model also
computes the network-wide prior probability of spoofng using the
fraction of clients that can spoof for each source address.
After building the radix-trie using the training data, the model
queries the trie in a manner analogous to a routing table lookup
over the test data. For each new client IP address in the test set, the
model returns a prediction corresponding to the spoofng capability
of its longest-prefx match on the radix trie. In the case that there
is no matching longest-prefx, the model fips a biased coin that
captures the overall prior probability of being able to spoof. Note
that we ignore clients in the test set that also occur in the training
set, so as not to artifcially infate the results positively via simple
memorization of previous results from that same client IP address.
Thus, we only test over clients that are “new.”
We term the ability to send spoofed packets a positive label. Our
model’s accuracy is > 90% across IP versions and source addresses.
However, accuracy is a poor measure of the model due to the fact
that the prior probability of spoofability is low, so we focus on
recall and precision. Figure 7 plots per-prefx spoofability recall and
precision of our model, as a function of the month that splits the
training from the test data. Recall is a measure of positive coverage:
the fraction of the clients able to spoof for which the model correctly
predicted this fact. Precision (positive predictive value) captures
fdelity: the fraction of the clients the model predicted can spoof
which were actually observed to spoof.
This data-driven model is basic and could incorporate many additional features, or use more advanced statistical learning techniques.
Thus, our recall and precision results represent a lower-bound of
what is likely possible to model. Rather, our goal is to demonstrate:
i) that our automated data gathering eforts have increased the
quality of the model over time; and ii) the data we have efectively
captures the actual state of Internet spoofability, by virtue of its
ability to make accurate predictions for unknown clients based on
the prior population of client data available to the project.
Figure 7(a) shows that as the system has accumulated more tests,
the model’s predictive recall has increased signifcantly, from a low
of around 20% in May 2016, to more than 80% for IPv6 in August
2019, but only 50-70% for IPv4. Similarly, fgure 7(b) shows that our
model’s precision has increased signifcantly in the last year, and
IPv6 predictions outperform IPv4 predictions. Note that 76% and
87% of the predictions come from the model’s radix trie for August
2019, for IPv4 and IPv6 respectively. Thus, the model’s performance
does not come from making random guesses based on the overall
prior spoofng probability, but from topological characteristics in
the observed data.
The model has poor precision for IPv4 private addresses, because
fltering for IPv4 private addresses is more pervasive in the core,
which occludes measurement of fltering policies at the edge. Figure 8 shows that for all other classes of spoofed source address
packets, nearly all Spoofer servers distributed around the world
receive the class of spoofed packet. This is typically never the case
with IPv4 private-address packets, which are fltered elsewhere in
the network, rather than at the source.
6 NATS ARE NOT A SUBSTITUTE FOR SAV
Our testing client is primarily installed on hosts whose IPv4 connectivity is provided by a NAT [18] system. In the year ending August
2019, we received reports from 2,783 ASes using IPv4; 2,418 (86.8%)
of these ASes had tests involving a NAT. A NAT system rewrites
the source address of packets so that internal hosts behind the NAT
with private addresses can communicate with other systems across
the Internet. A well-implemented NAT should not forward packets
with spoofed source addresses, as the spoofed address is unlikely
to fall within the private address range the NAT serves. However,
fgure 4a shows that 6.4% of IPv4 /24 prefxes tested from clients
behind a NAT did not flter packets with spoofed source addresses
in the year ending August 2019. Further, NAT use is rare in IPv6 because unique addresses are plentiful, so SAV is explicitly required in
IPv6 to flter packets with spoofed source addresses; fgure 4a also
shows that 12.3% of tested IPv6 /40 prefxes did not flter packets
with spoofed source addresses over the same time period.
6.1 IPv4 NATs are broken
In practice, there are two failure modes where a NAT will forward
packets with spoofed source addresses. We illustrate these failure
modes in fgure 9. In the frst failure mode, the NAT simply forwards
the packets with the spoofed source address (the victim) intact to
the amplifer. We hypothesize this occurs when the NAT does not
rewrite the source address because the address is not in the local
network served by the NAT. In the second failure mode, the NAT
rewrites the source address to the NAT’s publicly routable address,
assistant: The paper "Network Hygiene, Incentives, and Regulation: Deployment of Source Address Validation in the Internet" presents data on the deployment of source address validation (SAV) on the internet. The data is presented in Figure 4, which provides an overview of the findings on SAV deployment for packets both outbound from and inbound to the measured network, for the year ending August 1, 2019. The data is presented by IPv4/24 and IPv6/40 prefixes, and by autonomous systems (ASes). The figure shows that while most networks block packets with spoofed source IP addresses, deployment is far from universal. The data indicates that 25.2% and 32.1% of tested IPv4 and IPv6 ASes, respectively, had at least one prefix where operators had not deployed SAV to block outbound spoofed packets to the Internet. The authors also show that the deployment of SAV is worse for inbound packets than outbound packets, despite these packets being a threat to the receiving network. The authors also compare the data from the year ending August 2019 to data from May 2006, and found that the deployment of SAV has not generally improved.